- [Instructor] Spring batch uses the job repository
to store metadata about the execution of a batch job.
Up until this point,
this metadata was stored in an in-memory H2 database.
This isn't very useful since we'll lose the metadata
with every execution of a job.
In this lesson, we're going to set up our job repository
to connect to our MySQL database.
That way, we can store the metadata
regarding our job executions persistently
across different runs of jobs.
So in order to do that,
we need to add a new dependency into our palm.xml file,
and that dependency is going to be for
the MySQL database driver.
Now Currently, we have the H2 database configured,
we're just going to reuse that dependency section
to set up our MySQL driver,
and we'll remove H2 in the process.
So anytime we're using a Maven dependency,
we need a group ID.
In this case, it's going to be mysql.
And we also need an artifact ID.
In this case, it's going to be mysql-connector-java.
And then we can go ahead and remove this scope.
Okay, so that will get us the required dependencies,
we'll get the JDBC driver on the class path.
Now we need to instruct Spring on how to
create a data source that can connect to our MySQL database.
Now when we're using Spring Boot
that's done within the application.properties file.
And what we'll do is declare several properties
that start with spring.datasource.
So I'm just going to go ahead and copy that a few times.
And then we can specify those.
So the first thing we need to specify
is the driver class name.
And in this case, we're going to provide
the fully qualified name of the MySQL database driver,
which is com.mysql.jdbc.driver.
After that, we need to provide our connection string.
So we specify the spring.datasource.url property.
Here we specify the protocol,
which is going to be jdbc:mysql.
Then we specify our host name,
which is going to be localhost and our port number 3306.
Followed by the schema we would like to connect to.
In our case, it's going to be the batch_repo schema.
And that's where the spring batch framework is going to
write all of the tables that back our job repository.
Now the other thing we'll need to specify is the name
of the user that will be connecting to that schema.
And then we'll need to supply the password for that user,
which we declared as batch.
From there, we can also specify the platform.
And that's going to instruct spring
on what type of database we're using.
In this case, it's going to be mysql.
And then the final property we're going to configure
is related to spring batch itself.
And basically, we're telling it, when we launch a job,
it should create the data model for the job repository
within our schema if it doesn't exist.
And to do that, we use the
spring.batch.initialize-schema property,
and we set it to always.
And that will cause all those tables that hold the metadata
regarding our batch job execution to be created by default.
So we don't have to hammer out a bunch of DDL
within our database.
Okay, so everything is in place,
we'll just go ahead and save it.
And then we can launch our application.
We'll right click on our main class,
and then we're going to go to run as,
and then Java application.
If we take a peek at our console,
we're going to see our jobs startup,
and there you can see that it ran.
Now let's head over to the MySQL database
to see what happened.
So here you can see our batch repost schema.
I'm going to go ahead and refresh that,
you'll notice we get some tables.
These are the tables that will hold the metadata
regarding our batch job runs.
Some of these table names should look familiar.
You'll see job execution, job instance and step execution.
If we were to take a look at these tables,
you're going to see our last job run.
So here is the step execution.
We can also take a look at the job execution.
And here you can see that it completed successfully.
There's the status and exit code that we talked about.
We'll get into those a little bit more detail later.
And then here's our job instance that was created
for the deliver package job.
So in this lesson, we were able to configure
our job repository to work with our MySQL database,
and will now be able to store information
about our job executions.
This is useful for monitoring the execution of a batch job
or determining how failures may have occurred.
And this is also used by the framework when determining
if a particular job can be restarted.